

CS349 ASSIGNMENT 2: REMOTE CONTROL EXCAVATOR

Marker: Haiyu Zhen 



GUIDELINES

The assignment needs to compile and run in order for the TA to mark it. If it 

doesn't compile, but the TA is able to get it working, you will only lose marks 

for the "Deliverables" section. If they cannot get it to compile, you 

receive zero for the assignment.



The marking scheme below awards marks based on successful completion of the 

requirements. Note that severely deviating from the requirements may result 

in penalties that aren't listed below (i.e. you can't write a Java assignment 

in C++/OpenGL and receive a full-grade, even if you've otherwise met the 

requirements). 



If you have any questions about your grade, please contact the TA that graded 

this assignment (contact information above).



There are 110 available marks, marked out of 100.



TOTAL: 

/100 



MARKS:



DELIVERABLES (5)

(/5) 'make run' compiles and runs the program. README.txt contains required 

information.



DRAWING AND PRESENTATION (10)

(/5) Excavator displayed with at least five parts (body, treads, boom, arm, 

bucket).

(/5) Some care has been invested in presentation (color, details, etc).



SCRIPTING (15)

(/7) Can record/save a script.

(/8) Can load and play a script (one should be included).



DIRECT MANIPULATION (60)



Usability

(/10)  Direct manipulation is easy to discover and use (e.g. drag body to 

reposition; drag arms to rotate; drag corners or sides to scale) (full marks if 

discoverable manipulation; -5 if different modes need to be activated via multiple 

mouse buttons; -10 if a combination of keyboard and mouse input needed to switch 

modes)



Scene graph

(/10) Maintain a transformation matrix in each node of the scene graph. As 

the user manipulates the node, create appropriate translate, rotate, and scale 

matrices and multiply them into the node's matrix. (0 marks if the translation, 

rotation, and scaling values are maintained as individual values within the node).



Translation

(/5) The body can be moved, as described in the requirements.



Rotation

(/10) Nodes rotate about their parent when moved (-4 if it drifts away from the 

mouse; -8 if rotation has little relationship to the mouse movement).

(/5) Constraints: The boom can pivot 80째 from vertical. No part of the arm 

or bucket can collide with the boom and the angle between the arm and the boom 

is no more than 170째.  The bucket is constrained so there is at least 20째 between 

it and the arm but no more than 190째.



Scaling

(/5) The entire excavator can be scaled, without affecting other operations.

(/10) The arm can be scaled to twice its original length without affecting its

width or the bucket (-2 if no scale constraint; -5 if the bucket scales when you 

scale the arm).



Other

(/2) File-Reset resets the excavator to its initial state and File-Quit exits 

the app.

(/3) Fix the initial click bug (demonstrated in-class).



ENHANCEMENT (20)

(/20) A significant enhancement is included (and documented in the readme).

Marks awarded for both innovation and effort (approx. half marks awarded for 

innovation and half for effort; a significant enhancment is required for full 

marks).



COMMENTS: